1 
Policy for Renting ICB Facilities 01 December 2025 ICB Board of Directors

2 
ICB Policy: Renting ICB Facilities for Private Events  All use of the ICB must be in accordance with the mission of the ICB: a) to provide a focus of activities for Muslims living in the Greater Boston area, in order for them to organize the religious, educational, and social life of their community in light of the teaching and traditions of Islam, and b) to act as an Islamic information resource.  All events are subject to review by the President, Board of Directors, or a committee established by the Board to review such requests. The Board reserves the right to reject any request. These are general guidelines that may prove inadequate for all foreseeable events, and may therefore be subject to change on an as-needed basis by the Board of Directors.  The building is typically available for functions that do not conflict with normal activities of the center.  The maximum seating capacity for the Social Hall is 160.   ICB does not provide catering service and people booking are responsible to arrange and pay for it directly to the caterers.  Event Types and Associated Fee  These events can be booked by the members and non-members.  Members: To qualify for the membership rates, one must be a paid member for two (2) consecutive years including the current fiscal year. ICB Fiscal Year is September 1 – August 31.  Total charges include a rental fee (given under each event type below) and a setup, professional help and cleaning charge given below.  ICB can be booked for two types of events: ● Private Events by Individuals ● Private Events by Organizations  Private Events by Individuals Private events by Individuals can be categorized as:  a) Religious Events b) Social Events c) Children’s Events

3 
a) Religious Events Members may use the ICB for gatherings that primarily involve the reading of the Quran, prayers and/or Nasheed/Naat (religious poems) for purposes of someone ill, condolence for someone who has died, or for general thanksgiving.   Rental Fee: 1) Event involving serving of meals: Members $550 Non-members $900 2) Event involving serving of snacks and cold drinks (kitchen is not available): Members $200 Non-members $400 3) Event not involving food or drink: Members $100 Non-members $300   ** The maximum duration of the event is five hours. For events longer than five hours, an additional rental fee of $100 per hour will be charged.  b) Social Events Members may use the ICB for private social purposes, consistent with the mission of the center. Such events may include iftar dinner, engagement or a wedding nikah.  Rental Fee: 1) Event involving serving of meals: Members $650 Non-members $1200 2) Event involving serving of snacks and cold drinks (kitchen is not available): Members $500 Non-members $1,000 3) Event not involving food or drink: Members $150 Non-members $450  ** The maximum duration of the event is five hours. For events longer than five hours, an additional rental fee of $100 per hour will be charged.  c) Children’s Events Children’s events include Birthday party, Bismillah (beginning to read Quran), Ameen (Finish reading of Quran), and respectful Graduation celebration.  Rental Fee: The fees below include a special discount if the event is organized for ICB Junior Members (under 18 children of regular ICB members) or current ICB Sunday School students. 1) Event involving serving of meals: ICB Junior Member or a current ICB Sunday School student $400. Children of Non-members $800 2) Event involving serving of snacks and cold drinks (kitchen is not available): ICB Junior Member or a current ICB Sunday School student $200. Children of Non-members $400  Private Events by Organizations  Private events by organizations can be categorized as:

4 
a) Organizational Meetings Organizations may use the ICB for their management or board meetings with a maximum attendance of 15 people. Such events are limited to use of the meeting room in the Social Hall or one of the classrooms. No food or drink is allowed. Rental Fee: $150  b) Organizational Social Events Organizations may request to hold social events such as information about their organization or fundraising dinner event, etc. Rental Fee: $750  Optional Utensils Charge  The use of all Styrofoam disposables (hot cups, plates, etc.), as well as plastic straws & stirrers, is prohibited at ICB. Please consider using compostable products. ICB can provide compostable products upon request for an additional charge as outlined below. For the Lunch/Dinner option, a non-refundable optional charge of $1.00 per person provides a Compostable Items Set that includes,1 Dinner Plate, 1 Dessert Plate, 1 Appetizer Plate, 1 Hot Cup, 1 Cold Cup, Napkins & Flatware. For the Snack option, a non-refundable optional charge of $0.50 per person provides a Compostable Items Set that includes,1 Dessert Plate, 1 Hot Cup, 1 Cold Cup and Napkins. Note: Table covers are not included in the prices listed above and are the responsibility of the renter.

5 
  Disclaimer: Products shown in the photo may vary slightly based on availability. If substitutions are necessary, replacements will be of comparable quality and value.  Charges for Setup, Professional Help During the Event and Post-Event Cleaning  ** All events involving serving of food or snack require professional help during the event. You will be required to pay this fee one day before the event.  The place will be set up with rectangular tables prior to the event start. Round tables are available at extra charge. Table covers are required and the renters are responsible for bringing their own table covers for all tables used.  The following table shows the number of people provided to help depending on the size of the event and the kind of food:

6 
  # of People Snacks (No Kitchen Use) Lunch/Dinner (Kitchen Provided for Food Warming only) Help Provided Charges for 5 Hours Help Provided Charges for 5 Hours 1-75 2 People $450 2 People $500 76-125 2 People $450 3 People $625 126-160 3 People $600 4 People $750  ** For events longer than 5 hours a fee for each additional hour of $60 (2 people help), $90 (3 people help) or $120 (4 people help) will be charged.   Examples for Member Example 1: Nikah and dinner of a member for 160 people: ICB will assign 4 people to help and the total charge will be $1,400 ($650 rental fee and $750 for setup, professional help and cleaning).   Example 2: Quranic reading & dua with lunch for a member for 120 people: ICB will assign 3 people help and the total charge will be $1,175 ($550 rental fee and $625 for setup, professional help and cleaning).   Example 3: Birthday party with snacks for a child of a member for 50 people: ICB will assign 2 people to help and the total charge will be $650 ($200 rental fee and $450 for setup, professional help and cleaning).   Payment: Once the renter submits the form, ICB will review the request, verify availability, and send a confirmation email that includes a link to pay 50% of the Facility Rental Fee as a deposit. This deposit must be paid within two days of receiving the confirmation email. After the deposit is received, the event will be confirmed and added to the calendar. The remaining 50% of the Facility Rental Fee must be paid one day before the event for ICB to proceed with hosting. For events that include serving food or snacks, the estimated professional help fee (as stated above) must also be paid one day before the event. Cancellation and Refund Policy Cancellations made at least three weeks before the scheduled event are eligible for a full refund. Until that deadline, the renter may also choose to reschedule the event. Each rental agreement allows for one rescheduling. A rescheduled event that is mutually agreed upon by the renter and ICB does not count as a cancellation.

7 
Exceptions: ICB will provide a 100% refund of all payments made by the renter (or apply the full amount to a mutually agreed-upon future event date) if the cancellation is due to: • An emergency shutdown, including snow or other weather-related emergencies, declared by the town or the Commonwealth of Massachusetts affecting the ICB facility on the date of the event. • The facility becoming unavailable because of damage, loss of utilities, failure of sanitary facilities, or any other major issue that renders the space unusable.  PLEASE READ, PRINT AND SIGN RENTAL AGREEMENT ON NEXT PAGE OR YOU MAY AGREE TO IT WHEN BOOKING ONLINE.

8 
Rental Agreement ● We are pleased to have you use the ICB premises for your event and hope that you have a successful event. ● Please note that all events are subject to review by the President, Board of Directors, or a committee established by the Board to review such requests. The Board reserves the right to reject any request. ● All events must adhere to commonly accepted Islamic traditions. ● The renters are not permitted to profit from events or meetings held at ICB unless previously approved by the Board of Directors. ● Reservations are not confirmed until full Facility Rental Deposit is received.  Hours ● Facility Reservations are limited to five hours. There will be additional center fee and professional help charges for extra time.   ● All events must conclude by 11pm. ● ICB staff may be required for security. ICB reserves the right to require a police detail and to charge renters. ● Rental time begins when doors are unlocked and ends when the building is vacated and doors locked by ICB staff.  Limitations & Liability 1) Failure to comply with any rules for use will be considered sufficient grounds for refusal for further use of ICB facilities. 2) ICB, its Board of Directors or representatives assume no responsibility or liability for the injury to persons or equipment or for loss or damage to personal property brought to the facility. 3) You are responsible for and will reimburse ICB for any loss, damage or injury to the building, its contents, grounds, equipment or any person, arising out of or in connection with your use of the facilities. You agree to indemnify ICB for damages, claims or expenses including violation of the terms of this agreement. 4) ICB reserves the right to cancel your event, at its sole discretion, at any time, even if in progress, should you or your guests violate the terms of this agreement. In such cases, ICB shall retain all payments and shall not be liable for any charges or forfeited deposits imposed by your caterer or other service provider.  Set Up and Cleaning  The renter is responsible for setting up and tearing down any equipment. ICB rental fees for events involving food include payment for staff for essential cleaning, basic assistance such as buffet set up and building supervision. Any unusual cleaning, or other work beyond basic assistance required from ICB staff may require additional billing. Large non-food events (16 or more attendee) requiring setup of chairs are assessed an additional fee of up to $150 per event.

9 
 Facility Rules 1) Posted building capacity (160 max for Social Hall) rules must be met at all times. 2) All exit doors must remain clear and unobstructed 3) All windows must be free and clear, and should normally be closed.  4) The elevator is only used for handicap purposes and by ICB cleaning staff. 5) The renter is entitled to use of the available tables and chairs in the facility. If additional equipment is needed, the renter must make the necessary arrangements for delivery and set up. Rented equipment must be removed upon completion of the event. 6) No nails, staples, tacks or tape is to be used on the facility walls or other surfaces. 7) No decorations are allowed in the prayer hall including backdrops. 8) No open flames or other ovens are to be used in or around the facility. 9) Candles must be enclosed in a votive or hurricane holder. 10) No animals or pets are permitted in the building. 11) All events must adhere to commonly accepted Islamic traditions. 12) No shoes are to be used in the prayer hall or adjoining classrooms. 13) No food or beverages are allowed in the prayer hall. 14) No smoking is permitted in or around the facility. 15) ICB equipment may not be removed from the facility for any purpose, unless approved by ICB staff. 16) Trash must be removed from the building and placed in the dumpster, and the dumpster gate closed. 17) No smoke or fog machines are allowed as these trigger the smoke alarms and require forced evacuation and automatic response from the Town of Wayland fire department. 18) No chewing gum, glitter or confetti as these items cannot be cleaned. 19) Children must be supervised at all times. 20) No access to the second floor is allowed. 21) Bring your own table covers, serving dishes and utensils unless any requested from ICB. 22) Catering and any special serving assistance is to be paid for by the renter of the event. The center's cleaning and rental fees only cover buffet setup, tables and chairs setup and normal facility clean up after the event.  23) All utensils, plates, cutlery, and cups must be compostable. In case renters bring their own products, these products shall not be left at ICB as we are a green center.   24) Use serving dishes that help minimize dishwashing on site.  Kitchen • The kitchen is a commercial grade facility for the sole purpose of reheating and serving cooked food. It is equipped with a refrigerator, stove, oven, microwave oven, sinks and dishwasher. • Appliances are to be left clean. • All food must be prepared outside the facility. • Caterers must be licensed and must carry a minimum of $500,000 per person General Liability Insurance that covers the event. • No alcoholic beverages are permitted.

10 
• All insurance policies must be mailed or faxed 30 days prior to the event.  I understand and agree to abide by the rules and regulations of the Islamic Center of Boston rental agreement. By signing this agreement, I assume full responsibility for myself and my guests during the rental period approved by the Islamic Center of Boston.  To book the event visit ICB ONLINE EVENT BOOKING PAGE